>> Brian Holt: So
let's actually start talking about React.
And we're gonna do something kind of
a-typical here with React in the sense of.
Well just, for
those of you that are snooping right now,
I'm ignoring those global installs,
I'm gonna come back to them later, okay?
Because I know someone's thinking
about like, he skipped that,
I'm doing it on purpose.
Okay, so, React.
Now I would say many React developers
even today people like me that have been
writing React a long time don't know that
you don't need any tooling to write React.
You can write React, just plain old
React today with no tooling whatsoever.
That's exactly what we're
gonna start doing right now.
Just to show you that there is no,
there is nothing behind the curtain,
there is nothing mysterious going on here.
This is really just a library that has
function calls that produces markup,
the end, right?
That's it, so yeah, no ES6,
no JSX, just barebone React.
And we're gonna write that.
>> Brian Holt: So let's actually
start addressing why React is useful.
Why are we pulling this library?
What problem it's solving.
>> Brian Holt: I mentioned many of you
are coming from jQuery backgrounds,
from Angular, Backbone, Ember, Knockout.
I don't know, other libraries that
I can't think of right now, Cycle.
If you're coming from Cycle and not
writing React already, then good for you.
[LAUGH] So, yeah, we're gonna
start talking about what React is.
React is just kind of a view library.
Now, that's a gross simplification.
It does a little bit more
than just a view library, but
a good starting point for forming
your mental model of what React is,
it's just thinking of it as the view
in the model view controller.
Again gross simplification, but
that's a good place to start.
And I guess it's kind of worth addressing
what happened to MBC in the front end.
So, many of you come from
back-end type positions.
Right, you've written Django or Rails or
a play like some of these
different libraries.
That aim to separate your concerns into
models, views and controllers, right.
You have the model that talks to the
database, you have the view that actually
talks to the client, and then you have
the controller that kind of wires up
the talking between the models and
the views.
That works phenomenally for
the back-end, right?
Like that abstraction makes
a lot of sense because you have,
this code definitely goes in the model,
this code definitely goes in the view.
And we have this just like little
wiring layer between the two, right?
Works amazing.
Maintaining projects that are written
well in MBC in the back end is a joy.
So people decided, okay,
can we take these kinda cool ideas and
this good idea of separating concerns from
the backend into the front end, right?
And we ended up with Backbone.
And Backbone's a good library, right?
If you have written any
amount of Backbone,
it's usually not too bad until
things go wildly wrong, and
then it's horrible and
people die and stuff like that.
Just kidding.
So we tried to take this
abstraction built for
the server and we tried to kind of
shoehorn it into the front end.
And we found out that this quickly
kind of falls apart because there's no
true models, there's no true views,
and the controllers,
these concerns kind of get blurry really,
really quickly of what should go where.
And so you end up with these mixed
weird looking code basis and
you know you have a problem, and
you don't know if it's in the view,
you don't know if it's in the model,
you don't know if it's in the controller.
And you end up with this really,
really hard to debug,
really hard to read a project.
So people kind of starting
exploring beyond backbone.
Backbone was not necessarily the best
abstraction for the front end and so
we started coming up with these
things like Angular and Ember.
That's kind of start of shifting more
towards a UI type of concerns, right?
And those were really great, too.
But we still kind of end
up these problem with,
I have this piece of code that needs to do
something and I don't know where it goes.
So we discover that we have
problems with Ember and
Backbone, I'm talking about older Ember,
older, sorry, older Angular,
older Ember of I have this concern and
I don't know where it goes, right.
I would say Ember is a little
bit on the better side of this,
Angular is a little bit on the worse side.
But when you have a concern and you don't
know where it goes, that's a real problem.
One, for when you first write it but
two, it's a bigger problem when
you have a problem with it, right.
So I write this particular piece of code,
I put it on to the web I have a bug
that if I don't instantly know where that
bug is going to be, that's a real problem.
So let me give you an example.
Let's say I had some sort of JavaScript
code that as soon as I clicked that
React title,
that it pops something up, right?
I don't know, something stupid like that.
If this was written in older angular,
you can ask yourself, okay, so
I have a problem with this particular,
>> Brian Holt: Piece of JavaScript,
where does that JavaScript code live?
Does it live in the directive?
Does it live in the controller?
Does it live in the other directive?
Does it live in the scope?
Does it live in the template?
These are all perfectly viable places
where that particular piece of
code could live.
And that sucks, right.
Because now you have to go check seven
places to try and find your boat.
So, the smart people at Facebook/Instagram
at the time said this is a problem.
We want our code to be have a well
defined place where logic goes and
we want to have very easy
to follow code flows.
They kind of took that whole
NBC idea as this is not good.
We're not gonna follow this,
we're gonna go with something else.
So they threw that all out and
they ended up with this kind of React idea
that the best idea that people
have come up with so far for
UIs is just the basic request
response cycle, right?
You make a request to Web Server,
you get back a response, right?
As a user, I make a request
by clicking on a button and
I get a response by something
happening back at me.
This request response cycle
made a lot of sense to people.
>> Brian Holt: So they kinda built on top
of that and they kinda arrived at the idea
of one rather than trying to
separate concerns out for
these different pieces of UI code.
What we should do is we should
take all of the concerns.
And shove them together for
very small pieces.
So taking this example again of
this React headline right there.
>> Brian Holt: I'm going to take all
of the concerns for this behavior, for
the mark up, for the,
all that JavaScript, CSS,
HTML, and
we're just going to shove it all together.
And it's all going to be right there for
this very small component, right?
So if I have a problem when I click on it,
the problem is right there, right?
Because all of the code is right there.
And so by knowing what the problem is.
I also know where the code starts right.
Now that code could
bring in other modules.
But it gives you the start
of the trail right.
The post on the trail says,
the debugging path lies this way.
And it's dark and dreary and scary.
So, yeah that's kinda the idea behind
React, is we're gonna take all of our
concerns, and shove them together for
very small pieces.
And then we're going to take
these different pieces, and
we're going to build bigger, and
bigger applications as we go along.
Question?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah it was just
React versus Vue or Vu or whatever.
>> Speaker 3: Vue.
>> Brian Holt: I would say the React
versus Vue questions pretty similar to
the React versus Angular question,
in my opinion.
So it's just,
>> Brian Holt: I'd say Vue's
a little bit lighter weight.
It's really good for It's been
a long time since I worked in Vue.
So I think my best
question is don't ask me.
[LAUGH] That's not my best answer to that.
My second answer is that I like I
had a very pleasant time writing it,
and it seems like they're
going in a good direction.
So check it out, I think that's
probably the best answer for that.
Any other questions?
>> Speaker 4: Another
question in the channel.
Sanjay asks what, I don't know.
Basically, mixing a react with jQuery.
How to do it if we want to do it,
and those kinds of things.
>> Brian Holt: One can,
and one should not.
[LAUGH] So, what one can do and what one
should do are totally different things.
It can be done.
And there's good examples of it.
Like, for example Stripe has
a really cool Jquery library for
formulating currencies and
stuff like that.
I think it's called jquery.payments,
if I remember correctly.
This was a while ago when I wrote this,
and
I had to write a glue layer between
react and this j query plugin.
And it can be done, it works okay,
it's just gross and
messy, and It's a messy abstraction.
So it can be done, but as soon as you
start writing React you should really try
and pull all the other libraries
out of your particular application.
So try and get rid of jQuery, try and
get rid of Backbone,
all of those different things.
I'd also not suggest trying
to marry React and Backbone.
I've seen a lot of people trying
to do that with not great success.
I will say a valid migration strategy if
you're on Backbone is to rip out the view
layer of Backbone, put in React and then
slowly move everything else into React.
But you need to have the goal of
migrating completely off Backbone.
Don't try and
leave this gross hybrid out in production.
That's a bad idea.